okay so I think you should preface this
video with a quick note I like oneplus
as a company I really like what they've
tried to do over the past few years I
like most of their products however I do
feel like there's a shift in the
direction of the company so I thought it
would make a video on that everyone
knows this phone this is the oneplus 7
pro this came out about a month ago it
is a phone with a super smooth display
it's 90 Hertz stuff just looks crazy
smooth on it
bright AMOLED it's in my opinion one of
the best-looking displays and the
smartphone market right now it also has
a pop up camera to keep the front
display really clean but when they
announced this phone it became apparent
that in some parts of the world
including the United States and Canada
this would be the only one plus phone
that you would be able to buy the more
expensive pro variant of the oneplus 7
the regular one plus seven would not be
available in those markets so if you're
in the US or Canada you could only buy
the one plus seven Pro not the regular
one plus seven if you wanted a cheaper
one plus you would be able to buy last
year's model like remaining stock of the
oneplus 60 now haven't used the one plus
seven phone for a little bit this is a
fantastic phone now if you convert it
like again because it's not available
here I can't get exact pricing but if
you converted it from whatever markets
are available in two US dollars it's
around five hundred five hundred fifty
US dollars so it's a reasonable price
for what's essentially an upgraded
version of the one plus 60 now as cool
as this phone is the thing that I found
more interesting was the fact that they
were not selling this phone in North
America now when they first made that
announcement of we're not selling this
phone the sentiment that I got online
was that oneplus is being greedy why are
they doing this why are they selling
this phone only like in Asia and in
India like why aren't they selling it in
North America and that is the real
question so earlier this year
counterpoint research put out some data
and the headline of their article was
that oneplus was now one of the top five
smartphone manufacturers when it came to
the premium segment so you have your big
names like Apple and Samsung who've lost
a little bit of market share and then
you have Kwame Oppo and oneplus who've
all gained in market share and it's not
like you know if they're the best
companies in the world all of a sudden
but the fact that oneplus who has always
been a small company is now
top five in premium smartphone
manufacturers and there's like 40 of
them or something there's a lot of them
and their top five that's impressive but
buried in this article was a more
interesting note when it came to region
it was China India in Western Europe
that drove four-fifths of its global
shipments that means that 80 percent of
the phones that were moved went to China
India or Western Europe there's no
mention of the United States there's no
mention of Canada there's no mention of
North America at all it all went to
those three places or the majority of it
went to those three places and if you
take a step back and look at the history
of oneplus like they started off as a
company selling budget phones $300 smart
phones that were designed to shake up
the market and it worked and obviously
that business model wasn't sustainable
long term you can't just keep selling
these super cheap phones with really low
margins that's just a really bad way to
do business but it got them the
attention of enough people and every
year that went by they bumped up the
price a little bit while improving the
phone and the strategy works like you
basically take the fastest SOC at the
time package it into a nice-looking case
mid to your camera and you sell it and
they've made a great name for themselves
doing just that and they've made waves
with that product in Asia India China
people love oneplus there but in North
America they've made some moves they're
just not super popular yet and like any
business minded company you want to
penetrate North America because that's
where a ton of users are if you can get
people in North America to buy this
phone you win so that's what this phone
is designed to do the oneplus 7 pro with
the 90 Hertz OLED panel the pop-up
camera crazy fast storage warped
charging and then add a splash of Robert
Downey jr. for some ads in Asia and
maybe you got a winning formula but in
doing so by only selling the oneplus 7
pro in North America and not the regular
one +7 it's shown how much the company
has shifted from their original business
model it's shown how much the company
has grown over the years but it's also
shown how much the market has shifted so
when they first had the original oneplus
one they made a name for themselves as
flagship killers and over the years more
and more companies have done the exact
same thing making these mid tier phones
designed to disrupt the flagship market
and it's a very crowded space at this
point and when you have to compete with
phones like the Park
phone and the k20 it is very hard to
make money in that business so they've
shifted targets to a very different
demographic they're now selling premium
smartphones and that's a market that I
think that can be very competitive in
over the next few years now the reason
why I made this video was not because I
dislike oneplus or anything like that
it's because the regular one plus seven
is so good I'm not gonna do a review on
this thing it really is like a upgraded
version of the 60 but it's a shame that
they didn't sell this in North America I
get why they did it like it makes
perfect sense and I don't blame them for
going down this business route but I
can't help but be a little bit
disappointed because if I had to choose
like one of these phones to recommend to
the average person in North America it
would be the regular one plus 7 not the
one plus 7 Pro ok I hope this you
thought it was helpful
hope you guys enjoyed it thumbs we liked
it subs if you loved it see you guys
next time